<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [GoongGeocoder][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [Examples][3]
    -   [addTo][4]
        -   [Parameters][5]
    -   [clear][6]
        -   [Parameters][7]
    -   [query][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
    -   [setInput][10]
        -   [Parameters][11]
    -   [getInput][12]
    -   [setProximity][13]
        -   [Parameters][14]
    -   [getProximity][15]
    -   [setRenderFunction][16]
        -   [Parameters][17]
    -   [getRenderFunction][18]
    -   [getZoom][19]
    -   [setZoom][20]
        -   [Parameters][21]
    -   [getFlyTo][22]
    -   [setFlyTo][23]
        -   [Parameters][24]
    -   [getPlaceholder][25]
    -   [setPlaceholder][26]
        -   [Parameters][27]
    -   [getMinLength][28]
    -   [setMinLength][29]
        -   [Parameters][30]
    -   [getLimit][31]
    -   [setLimit][32]
        -   [Parameters][33]
    -   [getRadius][34]
    -   [setRadius][35]
        -   [Parameters][36]
    -   [setOrigin][37]
        -   [Parameters][38]
    -   [getOrigin][39]
    -   [on][40]
        -   [Parameters][41]
    -   [off][42]
        -   [Parameters][43]

## GoongGeocoder

A geocoder component using the [Goong Geocoding API][44]

### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][45]** 
    -   `options.accessToken` **[String][46]** Required. An API Key created at [https://account.goong.io][47]
    -   `options.origin` **[String][46]** Use to set a custom API origin. (optional, default `https://rsapi.goong.io`)
    -   `options.goongjs` **[Object][45]?** A [goongjs][48] instance to use when creating [Markers][49]. Required if `options.marker` is `true`.
    -   `options.zoom` **[Number][50]** On geocoded result what zoom level should the map animate to. (optional, default `16`)
    -   `options.flyTo` **([Boolean][51] \| [Object][45])** If `false`, animating the map to a selected result is disabled. If `true`, animating the map will use the default animation parameters. (optional, default `true`)
    -   `options.placeholder` **[String][46]** Override the default placeholder attribute value. (optional, default `Search`)
    -   `options.proximity` **[Object][45]?** a proximity argument: this is
        a geographical point given as an object with `latitude` and `longitude`
        properties. Search results closer to this point will be given
        higher priority.
    -   `options.trackProximity` **[Boolean][51]** If `true`, the geocoder proximity will automatically update based on the map view. (optional, default `true`)
    -   `options.collapsed` **[Boolean][51]** If `true`, the geocoder control will collapse until hovered or in focus. (optional, default `false`)
    -   `options.clearAndBlurOnEsc` **[Boolean][51]** If `true`, the geocoder control will clear it's contents and blur when user presses the escape key. (optional, default `false`)
    -   `options.clearOnBlur` **[Boolean][51]** If `true`, the geocoder control will clear its value when the input blurs. (optional, default `false`)
    -   `options.minLength` **[Number][50]** Minimum number of characters to enter before results are shown. (optional, default `2`)
    -   `options.limit` **[Number][50]** Maximum number of results to show. (optional, default `5`)
    -   `options.radius` **[Number][50]** Distance by kilometers around search location (optional, default `3000`)
    -   `options.marker` **([Boolean][51] \| [Object][45])** If `true`, a [Marker][49] will be added to the map at the location of the user-selected result using a default set of Marker options.  If the value is an object, the marker will be constructed using these options. If `false`, no marker will be added to the map. Requires that `options.goongjs` also be set. (optional, default `true`)
    -   `options.render` **[Function][52]?** A function that specifies how the results should be rendered in the dropdown menu. This function should accepts a single [Predictions][44] object as input and return a string. Any HTML in the returned string will be rendered.
    -   `options.getItemValue` **[Function][52]?** A function that specifies how the selected result should be rendered in the search bar. This function should accept a single [Place Detail][53] object as input and return a string. HTML tags in the output string will not be rendered. Defaults to `(item) => item.formatted_address`.

### Examples

```javascript
var geocoder = new GoongGeocoder({ accessToken: goongjs.accessToken });
map.addControl(geocoder);
```

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** `this`

### addTo

Add the geocoder to a container. The container can be either a `goongjs.Map` or a reference to an HTML `class` or `id`.

If the container is a `goongjs.Map`, this function will behave identically to `Map.addControl(geocoder)`.
If the container is an HTML `id` or `class`, the geocoder will be appended to that element.

This function will throw an error if the container is not either a map or a `class`/`id` reference.
It will also throw an error if the referenced HTML element cannot be found in the `document.body`.

For example, if the HTML body contains the element `<div id='geocoder-container'></div>`, the following script will append the geocoder to `#geocoder-container`:

```javascript
var geocoder = new GoongGeocoder({ accessToken: goongjs.accessToken });
geocoder.addTo('#geocoder-container');
```

#### Parameters

-   `container` **([String][46] | goongjs.Map)** A reference to the container to which to add the geocoder

### clear

Clear and then focus the input.

#### Parameters

-   `ev` **[Event][55]?** the event that triggered the clear, if available

### query

Set & query the input

#### Parameters

-   `searchInput` **[string][46]** location name or other search input

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### setInput

Set input

#### Parameters

-   `searchInput` **[string][46]** location name or other search input

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getInput

Get input

Returns **any** current input

### setProximity

Set proximity

#### Parameters

-   `proximity` **[Object][45]** The new `options.proximity` value. This is a geographical point given as an object with `latitude` and `longitude` properties.

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getProximity

Get proximity

Returns **[Object][45]** The geocoder proximity

### setRenderFunction

Set the render function used in the results dropdown

#### Parameters

-   `fn` **[Function][52]** The function to use as a render function. This function accepts a single [Predictions][56] object as input and returns a string.

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getRenderFunction

Get the function used to render the results dropdown

Returns **[Function][52]** the render function

### getZoom

Get the zoom level the map will move to

Returns **[Number][50]** the map zoom

### setZoom

Set the zoom level

#### Parameters

-   `zoom` **[Number][50]** The zoom level that the map should animate to

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getFlyTo

Get the parameters used to fly to the selected response, if any

Returns **([Boolean][51] \| [Object][45])** The `flyTo` option

### setFlyTo

Set the flyTo options

#### Parameters

-   `flyTo` **([Boolean][51] \| [Object][45])** If false, animating the map to a selected result is disabled. If true, animating the map will use the default animation parameters

### getPlaceholder

Get the value of the placeholder string

Returns **[String][46]** The input element's placeholder value

### setPlaceholder

Set the value of the input element's placeholder

#### Parameters

-   `placeholder` **[String][46]** the text to use as the input element's placeholder

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getMinLength

Get the minimum number of characters typed to trigger results used in the plugin

Returns **[Number][50]** The minimum length in characters before a search is triggered

### setMinLength

Set the minimum number of characters typed to trigger results used by the plugin

#### Parameters

-   `minLength` **[Number][50]** the minimum length in characters

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getLimit

Get the limit value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

Returns **[Number][50]** The limit value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

### setLimit

Set the limit value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

#### Parameters

-   `limit` **[Number][50]** the number of search results to return

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** 

### getRadius

Get the radius value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

Returns **[Number][50]** The limit value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

### setRadius

Set the limit value for the number of results to display used by the plugin

#### Parameters

-   `radius` **[Number][50]** the number of search results to return

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** 

### setOrigin

Set the geocoding endpoint used by the plugin.

#### Parameters

-   `origin` **[Function][52]** A function which accepts an HTTPS URL to specify the endpoint to query results from.

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

### getOrigin

Get the geocoding endpoint the plugin is currently set to

Returns **[Function][52]** the endpoint URL

### on

Subscribe to events that happen within the plugin.

#### Parameters

-   `type` **[String][46]** name of event. Available events and the data passed into their respective event objects are:-   **clear** `Emitted when the input is cleared`
    -   **loading** `{ query } Emitted when the geocoder is looking up a query`
    -   **results** `{ results } Fired when the geocoder returns a response`
    -   **result** `{ result } Fired when input is set`
    -   **error** `{ error } Error as string`
-   `fn` **[Function][52]** function that's called when the event is emitted.

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this;

### off

Remove an event

#### Parameters

-   `type` **[String][46]** Event name.
-   `fn` **[Function][52]** Function that should unsubscribe to the event emitted.

Returns **[GoongGeocoder][54]** this

[1]: #goonggeocoder

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #addto

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #clear

[7]: #parameters-2

[8]: #query

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #setinput

[11]: #parameters-4

[12]: #getinput

[13]: #setproximity

[14]: #parameters-5

[15]: #getproximity

[16]: #setrenderfunction

[17]: #parameters-6

[18]: #getrenderfunction

[19]: #getzoom

[20]: #setzoom

[21]: #parameters-7

[22]: #getflyto

[23]: #setflyto

[24]: #parameters-8

[25]: #getplaceholder

[26]: #setplaceholder

[27]: #parameters-9

[28]: #getminlength

[29]: #setminlength

[30]: #parameters-10

[31]: #getlimit

[32]: #setlimit

[33]: #parameters-11

[34]: #getradius

[35]: #setradius

[36]: #parameters-12

[37]: #setorigin

[38]: #parameters-13

[39]: #getorigin

[40]: #on

[41]: #parameters-14

[42]: #off

[43]: #parameters-15

[44]: https://docs.goong.io/rest/guide#place

[45]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[46]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[47]: https://account.goong.io

[48]: https://docs.goong.io/js/guide

[49]: https://docs.goong.io/js/guide#add-custom-icons-with-markers

[50]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[51]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[52]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[53]: https://docs.goong.io/rest/guide#get-point-detail-by-id

[54]: #goonggeocoder

[55]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Event

[56]: https://docs.goong.io/rest/guide#get-points-by-keyword
